compared to the unbelievable ethical and
ecological challenge we face as humanity
and what can we possibly do about it
there's a sense in which I can say
veganism is easy veganism is easy
compared to transitioning to being a
society fueled by solar power compared
to the difficulty for you as an
individual in ceasing to use a car
entirely or for us as a society to have
50% of people stop using cars to stop to
eliminate cars and trucks or even
significantly reduce cars and trucks
that's hard compared to those things
being vegan is easy but I gotta tell you
as a diet as a weight loss diet as a
diet to be beautiful veganism is not
easy the only thing that has moved him
to consider the plight of cows that are
raised to die in veal crates which is a
moving sight to the most stone-hearted
of nihilists myself included the idea of
an animal being born taken away from its
mother put in a plastic shed to be born
and raised and live only to die to be
turned into veal and guess what guys the
veal industry and the dairy industry are
not two separate industries there are
two stages of one in the same industry
you don't produce dairy with a veal you
don't produce feel without dairy this is
a constant process of cows living their
whole life on a concrete floor
surrounded by steel rails with a steel
shed for a sky living just to die
forcibly inseminated having their
children taken away from etc because if
they're not constantly impregnated again
again they're not producing milk and
Kevin Smith is a guy who has gone out of
his way repeatedly to laugh at that and
to encourage others to laugh at it to
laugh at veganism as an ethical cause as
an ecological cause to take absolutely
no responsibility for anything until his
own health puts him at death's door
it's all [ __ ] sign drawn on like this
public utility thing I said not your mom
yeah tilt a picture of a cow's head like
Bessie Borden cow or not your mom not
your
milk really made me think made me feel
really bad it's pulled cuz I drink a lot
of milk if you're going a gallon of milk
a day
poor little cows are rolling around a
field going like we're so thirsty I'm
like I'm not Venice yen hey guys I'm
broadcasting in my pajamas in natural
sunlight no makeup no preparation no
scripts this is what YouTube was
invented for it's commonly said amongst
vegans that you know our real enemy is
just ignorance and indifference that our
enemy is not people who are anti vegan
but just people who've never really
thought about veganism people have never
really questioned the dietary habits
that their own grandparents had the
assumptions and values whether those are
ecological ethical or health-related
because veganism engages the all three
well guess what Kevin Smith just had a
heart attack and he is in the vocal
minority of people who are not just
passively ignorant of veganism but who
were actively anti-vegan part of the
reason for this is just a Kevin Smith is
someone who was recorded hundreds and
hundreds of hours of YouTube videos and
podcasts I'm also in that category yes I
have a much smaller audience but I think
I have about 900 videos on YouTube now
so once you get over a certain threshold
you find yourself speaking on the record
about topics that you probably thought
you'd never talk about the you never
take a stand on or have a position on I
realized that veganism was not a high
priority for this guy it's not something
he was really sincerely interested in
but he has taken the time at some length
to state why he is against veganism he
is married to a woman who is vegetarian
and they've been married for many many
years so within his own home he's talked
about what it's like to live with
someone you know eating I assume two or
three meals a day but eating very often
with someone who is vegetarian well he
continued to eat meat and while he had
tremendous health problems linked to
eating meat most obviously obesity he
struggled with obesity is now looking
leader but he's also on a gurney with
this heart attack that could have killed
it just a couple days ago all right um
being lean and indeed being beautiful
has remarkably little to do with being
healthy of course
it's natural that we all have this
assumption that being beautiful means
that you're healthy and that being
healthy will make you beautiful
but it's not merely in a technical sense
that it's not true just lately this is a
tangent but it's related to what I want
to say here about Kevin Smith
I've really noticed two major vegan
youtubers one called Mike the vegan and
one called plant-based news going back
to the form of advocacy for veganism
that tries to I don't know perpetuate
the myth that all vegans look like
bikini models or that if you become
vegan you will have a bikini body or
that any significant percentage of the
people who are in there living that way
any significant percentage of the people
who are professional models professional
beautiful people professional actors or
actresses with that kind of torso shall
we say torso is the word here um a lean
torso a muscular torso said that any
significant percentage of those people
are vegan or the V doesn't help them
them do it the leading vegan models and
influences and ask them to share their
secrets in this video they outline the
benefits of going plant-based and
describe how excess weight and illness
melted away as here is the before and
here is the after I know not the most
intense weight loss ever but does she
have a time machine her her boyfriend
just watched the documentary Earthlings
and then thankfully switched to a more
healthy vegan diet the first one is like
its aunt Vicki on the cruise you know
then all sudden she's like 20 years
younger in a later picture it's the same
person though pretty amazing the power
of plants and that's overlooking what I
think is the real mass phenomenon with
with veganism which is that the vast
majority of people including very
athletic people when they first switch
to a vegan diet they struggle with their
weight which is say they gain weight
they get fatter on a vegan diet they're
deeply disappointed with the diet
because it doesn't deliver those results
it definitely doesn't deliver them
effortlessly right
and flatulence okay being all the way
will most people are not accustomed to a
diet that involves eating beans and bean
products three meals a day I was just
drinking soy milk as you can tell for me
this is first thing in the morning but I
wake up and eat soy milk which is made
out of beans and whether it's the
protein powder I'm eating or whole foods
you know processed or unprocessed foods
a lot of hard to digest high protein
roughage is in the vegan diet and of
course sorry and that's once you've
figured out how to have enough protein
as a vegan which is a lot to do with
eating a lot of beans and as I say that
can really bring about a lot of
digestive issues when you haven't
figured it out yet just the amount of
carbohydrates and sugar in the vegan
diet and the lack of feeling sated the
way you're used to feeling satiated
foods
I mean dairy is unbelievably unhealthy
dairy products for you right foods like
cheese but most of these people have had
cheese and meat as a crush of their diet
from early childhood and when you eat
for example a cheese burgers and it
combines cheese and ground beef you're
getting a ton of salt an unbelievable
amount of salt and a ton of fat and a
ton of protein all in one package all at
one time
and it's extremely filling and then I
mean you may not be aware of it if
you're a mediator you've grown up with
it you have a feeling of fullness that
you almost never get on a vegan diet for
me now I've been vegan for so long I
have the opposite problem like I find
bread overwhelmingly filling if I eat
too much of it at once I know that's
crazy I had an olive bread but bread
that had all lives in it and olive oil
in it and I you know I couldn't believe
it felt like you know I felt like I was
eating something like cheese like
something very fun so you can kind of I
think this is just a psychological
change not a physiological change terms
how you feel about rich and filling food
things do change eventually as a vegan
but look compared to the unbelievable
ethical and ecological challenge we face
as humanity and what can we possibly do
about it there's a sense in which I can
say veganism is easy
veganism is easy compared to
transitioning to being a society fueled
by solar power compared to putting up
solar panels on every rooftop in Los
Angeles or filling the Mojave Desert
with solar panels you know compared to
the other changes in our society that
would have similar ecological benefits
compared to saving any one watershed you
know compared to preventing the Panama
Canal from filling up with silt due to
erosion compared to solving the
unbelievable crisis in water pollution
we have that's caused by cattle farming
pig farming chicken farming and then the
related use of fertilizers because these
things are linked both to produce the
food for the animals and in terms what's
done with the poo and runoff of those
animals and manufacturing as a
fertilizer these are you know ecological
problems on an unbelievable scale and
you can just google them a little bit
and get a sense of the math of what I'm
talking about here compared to the
difficulty for you as an individual in
ceasing to use a car entirely or for us
as a society to have 50% of people stop
using cars to stop to eliminate cars and
trucks or even significantly reduce cars
and trucks that's hard compared to those
things being vegan is easy but I gotta
tell you as a diet as a weight-loss diet
as a diet to be beautiful veganism is
not easy and it's partly not easy
because we didn't grow up with this
culturally we didn't grow up with their
grandparents teaching us how to do this
and it's also difficult because of those
reasons that a lot of vegans a lie to
you about it's not that easy to get
enough protein it's not that easy to get
enough calcium it's not that easy to get
enough zinc of course it's not easy to
get b12 you gotta take a vitamin for b12
and it's not easy to learn to really
balance your macros and have a vibrant
high protein low fat moderate moderate
carb diet as a vegan especially when
you're when you're not into it the
benefits of going plan based in describe
how excess weight and illness melted
away if you walk into any corner store
and just look at the rack of women's
magazines you know Cosmopolitan magazine
the name of these magazines sorry
magazines like cosmopolitan magazine or
it doesn't matter if there are magazines
aimed at a women's market or a men's
market a lot of them have women in
revealing attire they have this image of
the slim athletic woman on the cover and
filling the page of these magazines the
Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue just
ask yourself what percentage of those
women are achieving and maintaining that
body that look that appearance through a
vegan diet the answer is very close to
zero and many of those magazines are
full of diet advice weight loss advice
fitness advice from those same women
telling you how they do it and of course
that's about having some kind of
strictly controlled meat-based diet
right so that's about the outer
appearance and of course one flip side
of that is cholesterol and its effects
are invisible I've known people much
slimmer than myself who are not vegan
who did have heart attacks I remember
one guy he was living in Thailand he was
a lot slimmer than I was and he was
living on Thai Street food you know from
from food stall vendors and people think
that's so much healthier than eating at
McDonald's but it's all little bits of
meat in oily spicy sauces and that kind
of thing a street vendor food in
Thailand that was what he ate it's kind
of seven days a week as a he was a white
guy living in Thailand and yeah he
during the time I knew him he collapsed
and nearly died and was hospitalized and
you know the question was were they
gonna put a shunt into his veins and
arteries and so on um you know people
want to believe that beauty is virtue
and virtue is beauty and it's not
whether or not you have cholesterol
clogging your arteries whether or not
you have cholesterol clogging the
pathways of the brain which is
terrifying long before it gets to the
point of being Alzheimer's disease it's
still terrifying and to say I have mixed
feelings about somebody like Kevin Smith
who has actively come out and been anti
vegetarian and anti vegan for years
would be a lie I don't have mixed
feelings I only feel harsh cotton
towards this guy the only thing that has
moved him to consider the plight of cows
that are raised to die in veal crates
which is a moving sight to the most
stone-hearted of nihilists myself
included the idea of an animal being
born taken away from its mother put in a
plastic shed to be born and raised and
live only to die to be turned into veal
and guess what guys the veal industry
and the dairy industry are not two
separate industries there are two stages
of one in the same industry you don't
produce dairy with a veal you don't
produce feel without dairy this is a
constant process of calves living their
whole life on a concrete floor
surrounded by steel rails with a steel
shed for a sky living just to die
forcibly inseminated having their
children taken away for them cetera
because if they're not constantly
impregnated again again they're not
producing milk and Kevin Smith is a guy
who has gone out of his way repeatedly
to laugh at that and to encourage others
to laugh at it to laugh at veganism as
an ethical cause as an ecological cause
today absolutely no responsibility for
anything until his own health puts him
at death's door until a doctor tells him
if you don't change you're gonna die and
Kevin Smith you think of yourself as a
moral person I've heard you being an
amateur moral philosopher he used to
think of himself as a religious person
we've heard as a religious philosophy
for years too in his films and in his
podcasts and everything else Kevin Smith
you are the lowest of the low you are a
scumbag you richly deserve the
consequences of your actions
which in your case were not made out of
ignorance
you're in the tiny minority of people
who really consciously intentionally
chose this really made me think dark is
that I'm just enjoying this I looked
over simple milk I'm like I guess you're
right look do they lie to me do we have
to kill cows for this milk now obviously
if your doctor now orders you to be in a
plant-based diet you can be on a
plant-based diet but I can't say that
you'll ever be welcome in the vegan
movement because the vegan movement is
all about taking responsibility
not just for the consequences of our
actions as individuals but the
consequences of our actions collectively
as a society in the 21st century which
which involves the suffering and death
of millions of animals to produce food
that is both unnecessary and unhealthy
that of course causes unbelievable
suffering to human beings with
conditions like heart attacks but also
causes unbelievable damage to air
pollution water pollution and creating a
cycle of industrialized misery that is
frankly beyond belief if I describe to
you what we do everyday in industrial
meat production if I describe with you
as an idea for a science fiction novel
you'd say that's not believable you'd
say what kind of cartoonish supervillain
would invent such a thing all right but
it is all too believable in the world we
live in right now I still a sick [ __ ]
you yeah like every man for himself
that was including no [ __ ] [ __ ] nope
does about a good
that's not talked drink it
I own it but you know what I don't even
waste it my guest I drink I know they're
cows out there like [ __ ] prick at
least I'm drinking it some got thrown
out [ __ ] nope never expires my house
yeah so there I'm just a bonus yen